hey have you ever considered buying
another home
I mean an apartment or a house where you
could live with your entire family if so
you probably know that it's easier said
than done especially in a big city
because the prices are sky high wherever
you are and that's not to mention the
overpopulation but consider this there
are literally millions of empty homes in
China a perfect place to settle isn't it
well not exactly
and here's why I'll start from the very
beginning I live in a rather large city
and the cost of housing here can drive
you crazy like many I'm renting an
apartment right now but I've recently
started to feel annoyed by having to
give away my money to someone who can
throw you out of their place at any time
so I began searching for other options I
must say that I'm alone and I'm quite a
free spirit so moving to another city or
even another country is not out of the
question
well I surf the web and that's when I
stumbled upon the news from China namely
about its whopping 50 million empty
homes just waiting to be inhabited
what's the deal I asked myself 50
million homes the number just couldn't
fit into my head that's an entire
population of some small European
country I decided to look closely into
the matter and I was pretty shocked by
what I found there are indeed whole city
standing more or less empty in China
however the tricky part is that they're
all bought and sold how is that you
wonder well so did I the answer is
pretty simple
the Chinese rush to buy property like
crazy
many of the apartments in these huge
complexes are someone's second or wait
for it third homes of course no one
lives in these places
they have their primary apartments where
they live with their families they give
the second ones to their adult children
the third ones stay empty just in case
therefore the districts where there are
more of these third home dwellings look
quite deserted this seems a likely
scenario for a country with a high GDP
which China definitely is but
I was so stupid by what I learned about
their property shopping spree that I
wanted to find out how much the average
Chinese person actually earns the
surprising truth is that the salaries
there aren't that high statistic comm
says for example that in 2017 the
nationwide average was seventy four
thousand three hundred eighteen yuan
which is roughly 11,000 bucks u.s. now
the cost of a new apartment as far as I
understood may start from around two
thousand one three hundred dollars per
square foot I did a little math and my
eyebrows went all the way up to buy a
decent seven hundred foot apartment in
China you'll need at least nineteen
thousand five hundred bucks that's
almost twice the yearly income of the
average Chinese person so where in the
world do they find the money to buy
second and even third apartments the
answer is amazing in its simplicity they
share and they save China is well known
for its respect toward tradition and
that concerns family as well children
are strictly a product of marriage there
so if a couple wants to have a baby they
need to get married first and newlyweds
naturally need some place to live do you
follow me yet cool because I'm getting
to the point here let's be honest living
with your whole family in a small
apartment and I mean your parents your
spouse and your kids can be horrible
so you desperately need your own corner
but remember the average salary even a
mortgage will only be a solution if you
earn enough and live in a city cheap
enough that is if you do it all on your
own as a traditionalist society China is
very strong on family bonds basically if
you ask your family to help you out with
the money you need to buy an apartment
they'll most likely give you a hand and
that's where the saving part comes into
play most Chinese people are very
disciplined and not used to squandering
they think about the future a lot and so
they save money well I'm no stranger to
saving myself I normally put aside about
10% of my wages for big purchases on
planning but when I learned how much the
Chinese save
my jaw dropped all the way to the floor
they say 40% of their salary can you
imagine putting aside almost half of
your income I wouldn't even survive on
what's left they do however and they
seem to find it comfortable combining
these two aspects you get a clearer
picture of a typical Chinese family
there are seniors who work their whole
life and save a lot of money then there
are young men and women who also work
and save and who have the help of their
extended families to buy themselves a
new home when the time comes okay they
have the necessary resources for that
that explains the second home but it
doesn't explain even a tiny bit though
is why they would need a third one to
leave it empty just in case what
well to understand this I had to dig
even deeper into the cultural and social
life of China and there I finally found
my answers the one-child policy that
started back in 1979 left the country in
a very tricky situation because of this
initiative there are many more men than
women in China today which leaves the
housing issue wide open and on the
shoulders of the men to be able to marry
a young man has to have at least one
apartment in his property portfolio or
his fiance's parents won't even consider
him a good match for their daughter
traditionalists remember so families
that have sons start saving money right
from their kids birth to be able to
provide them with a separate home later
if they have not one but two apartments
that increases their chances of starting
their own family well that does it I
finally cracked this nut families buy
several homes for their kids especially
their sons to give them a better future
yep there's one more thing to consider
the supply of housing wouldn't grow so
fast if it weren't for the profit of
local governments you see prefectures
and cities get their fair share of money
from the growing property market the
more it grows and the more people buy
the larger the GDP becomes and so it
happens that local government officials
get promoted for such growth seems like
a win-win to me
in fact though this growth is rather
artificial which makes the whole city
building thing quite a bubble waiting to
pop let's not forget that there are over
50 million homes that aren't actually
inhabited they're just bought by people
who are in need of some certainty this
leaves many more unfortunate guys
without any housing opportunities that's
a lot of people living in cramped
apartments with no choice but to wait
for their chance and work like there's
no tomorrow but there's one thing that
made me believe in this building boom
remember how so many headlines of the
world's newspapers called the newly
built empty districts in China ghost
towns that was a few years ago but you
can still find this stuff even today
well that turned out to be completely
untrue those places were pretty much
uninhabited back in the day simply
because very few people had managed to
move there yet
take the district of Ching Gong and
kunming it's probably one of the
brightest examples of these so-called
ghost towns but if you look at it today
you'll see there are thousands of people
living happily in their brand-new
apartments the district is pretty
beautiful by the way
with a rich infrastructure and lots of
things to do the same can be said for
Ordos the most famous ghost city of
China it stopped being one as soon as
all the socially important objects were
completed and the flow of people in
there has been pretty large ever since
according to government authorities more
than one hundred fifty-three thousand
people currently live in the district of
course this isn't as many as they wanted
there to be but it still doesn't qualify
as a ghost town if you ask me at last I
completed my little research project and
felt satisfied with what I found if only
I could remember why I did it in the
first place anyway
tell me bright siders what other
interesting facts about living in China
do you know share your insights in the
comments below I've become so involved
in this that I'd love to hear anything
you have to say don't forget to like
this video share it with your friends
and click the big red subscribe button
to always stay on the bright side
you